okay i think it's recording
welcome i'm gonna click leave meeting
now we're good
thanks for running the intro uh welcome
to guria and in web browsers
uh bi-weekly call which is usually every
two weeks it's 24th of
november 2020 uh
short agenda this week because a lot of
stuff is
in flight and did not need it
however we got a pretty exciting psa
about
uh planning jessica
indeed um i suppose i can share my
screen this is not
super super useful to share my screen
but some eye candy y'all don't have to
look at my
face we are doing our
annual planning which is pretty
wonderful so you can
view the info at this in the repo at
github.com
ipfs roadmap
basically what's going on is uh we are
currently soliciting
proposals for our major 2021
themes um as you can see there are 10 of
them in place right now and
more are welcome um these are really all
over all over the gamut um
i will leave it to anybody on this call
to read through these but they're
they're fairly uh detailed in their
proposals this is one of the shorter
ones
but they do follow a template you can
see what's on our
agenda for discussing for 2021 you can
add your own
theme if you want to add an entire theme
for consideration for
the team or you can be like me and go in
and leave comments on like two-thirds of
these
um with additions questions and so forth
all input is more than welcome
i can stop sharing my screen
or you can start sharing youtube or i
can keep sharing my screen all right
tell us about the new companion
yeah sure let's talk about the new
version of companion um
okay companion two sixteen zero
came out well github tells me six days
ago
um this is sort of one of those small
but mighty releases
um dns link websites you have these two
options here copy snapshot link and copy
ips
path um you can see them in situ here i
can just i don't know let's just load up
ipfs.io i'm embarrassed that my search
history contained instagram that was
gross
but you'll see here um these have been
slightly rearranged but now we've also
got the ability to copy this
snapshot link um a link to a snapshot of
this tab at this moment in time it will
not change
even if the content changes later cool
thing about this is it's just basically
linking to
uh the ipfs the the cid url
on the gateway um but this works for
anybody so if you just want to show
somebody what's basically an archival
link that's actually super useful
now if you're the sort of person who
likes to copy paths on dns links you can
copy both the ips path straight from
companion or the ipfs
path straight from companion and we also
did a little bit of visual housekeeping
so that you didn't have 27 items in this
menu we went ahead and moved import
and my node up here into the header so
they're easier
to get to and just kind of make a little
more sense conceptually
so if you've not already upgraded which
you probably have
because it did it automatically for you
this is here for you oh additionally
uh in response to comments that just
popping up
the release notes on launch of a new
edition was super super annoying
you now get this adorable little orange
information icon that will take you to
right now these release notes so like i
said small but mighty release
lots more stuff in the work but a lot of
things in flight which might be a good
segue to whatever it is that you're
talking about
lytle oh
gosh my my item is not as visual
so i will i will try to make it
interesting by
maybe sharing my uh browser window can
you see my window
it should be yeah so
iraqi has been working on
uh improving
ipfs in web browsers like we all do but
however
his work is
yeah his work is extremely important
because it touches the lower levels of
our stock
and there is a recent win i wanted to
celebrate
is uh merge and release of this
pr and why it's important it fixes the
progress reporting
when you import files to ipfs over http
api
now you may use
uh this our http client library and
this latest version includes uh
mentioned pr
which fixes if you look at our api
for importing data let's say ipfs add
you may pass various options you can
customize which
hashing algorithm you want to use for
chunking your data
and things like that however
this one lets you pass a function
which may be used for reporting
progress in your user interface
let's say you are importing a very big
file and it takes
a few good seconds to import and nothing
happens
now you are able to display progress so
i know it's trivial and it sounds like
something we should have done
a long time ago however it's really
difficult to do
things like this in a way that works
both in nodes
and in a web browser and in a way that
does not buffer entire thinking memory
so there's a lot of low-level problems
that we had to solve
and a huge thanks to iraqi for
sinking a bunch of time into untagging
this mess and
making it possible so now people just
just installed uh oh gosh wrong tab
uh just install the latest version and
that functionality
will work you may ask hey wasn't it
working before
well it was working before however the
problem was
it was at zero percent and then when
entire thing was uploaded
in it jumped to 100 percent so
if you used uh embedded js ipfs
on your page the progress reporting
worked fine however if you use
a remote node over http client you had
this
strange behavior when it immediately
jumped from 0 to 100
that's no longer the case and i believe
many people will appreciate that
including uh
yours truly uh regarding web ui
this will land in the latest version of
web ui
soon i won't say in the next two weeks
because i said that last time
however uh in the next release so
so basically um the most obvious place
you're gonna see this
is like in the drag and drop and web ui
a little drawer pops up and you get the
progress bar indicator
that will be a true sequential
percentage kind of style progress bar
instead of just
spinning until it's done yeah and i
believe if you drag and drop
like multiple files now you will see uh
not only like the
generic total one however now you will
see the progress per file
um i believe so i believe that we baked
that in
and um when we discovered this progress
reporting issue had sort of just killed
it off but we're going to
hopefully bring that back to life will
be
very cool yeah i see
the last item is quick status update on
pinning service integration
uh do we have it as two parts
do you want to take one part and then me
i don't have i don't have much to offer
i just want to bring this up for uh
those of you who might be following
along at home um
you know we've been working on this over
over the
fall and um you know as with just about
everything else it proves to be a much
larger project than we thought
and we are i don't want to spoil the fun
i'll i'll i'll let you
talk about this but we're we're getting
much much closer to wrapping up the go
ipfs stage of this work
yeah so it takes a longer time because
we are not just
bolting pinning service support on top
of web ui
just a reminder is that pinning service
api
is just like a generic http api that
pinning services can implement
just to facilitate you give them cid and
then they
take care of keeping that data around
they take care of fetching data
on your behalf so
instead of just bolting that support for
that api
on top of web ui we went
path less traveled and we decided to
implement support for
pinning services in the core apis and
that means
go ipfs itself will have support for
remote pins there will be
pin just like you have right now ipfs
pin command
you will have a ipfs pin remote command
a family of commands which lets you add
and remove and list remote pinning
services
and then pin a specific cid
uh to a specific remote service
check its uh stay like pinning status
because you may
be pinning a very big file it may take
time
to fetch that so you can decide to oh i
don't want to wait for
the pinning process to finish i want to
just
get the request identifier and
let it pin in the background you may
then like close your laptop or something
as long as data is on the network
available on the network it will work
so uh we are very close to landing uh
support for pin remote commands in go
ipfs
0.8 i believe is scheduled to
release candidates will land this week
or next week
and we should have a support for remote
pin commands
in go ipfs
before christmas i believe and then
when that lands we will have support
in the mentioned http client which
i mentioned before and then web ui will
introduce user interface uh on top of
those commands so
there will be no work duplication we
will just leverage uh
apis from your node there will be
when everything when every ps lands we
will have
support in ipfs desktop with the latest
go ipfs 0.8 and the latest ipfs web ui
so there's a bunch of work nearly ready
waiting for either final review or uh
blocked by
uh waiting for go ipfs 0.8
but hopefully that will start landing uh
in between now and next bi-weekly
hopefully um yeah so that's the update
um yeah i
don't think there's more to that i think
that's it
yeah as things get slowly but surely
integrated into web ui
don't forget you can always view kind of
the
cutting edge stuff the bleeding edge
sounds kind of gross but web ui.ipfs.io
we'll always pull from what's in master
so if you want to kind of get a sneak
peek that option is always there for you
yeah and you if you are using ipfs
companion you can go to preferences and
there's an experiment
where you can opt in to the latest
version so instead of using the
hardcoded version with your which ships
with your go ipfs
uh you can opt in uh into the latest web
ui so you don't need to
update go ipfs to bleeding edge version
you can use a stable version but just
like
try web ui
i believe that's it i don't think we got
any more highlights
i think that's all we've got yeah uh
stay tuned i'd say
uh it will be slow like it will be
shorter quarter
uh if we plan some vacation at the end
of it
uh so but hopefully uh some stuff will
land before the end of the year
and yeah we will mention that on this
call
yeah full disclosure between all the
winter holidays um you know those of us
in the states as you can tell by my
funny accent
a few days off this week um all the sort
of winter holiday stuff and then
obviously
the annual planning that we bring
that we brought up at the beginning of
this meeting is a very useful very
helpful but also rather detailed and
somewhat time-consuming process
and that i believe is it
we can welcome raphael to see if he uh
has anything to join before we end
we're actually wrapping up dude
[Laughter]
great timing just to say
that bye the meeting so hello goodbye
everybody i
might as well might as well stop the
recording thank you to anybody who may
be watching this async
let's slowly wave to people who are
watching and see you in two weeks